>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, DECEMBER 7:
SIX GUANTANAMO DETAINEES ARE
RELEASED FOR RESETTLEMENT.
A CLOSER LOOK AT THE ATTEMPT TO
RESCUE HOSTAGES IN YEMEN.
ASSESSING ONE OF NORTH KOREA'S
MOST POWERFUL WEAPONS-- THE
CYBER ATTACK.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
RISK OR REWARD: RAISING MONEY
ONLINE FROM SMALL INVESTORS FOR
START UP BUSINESSES.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THE PENTAGON ANNOUNCED TODAY
THAT THE U.S. HAS TRANSFERRED
SIX DETAINEES FROM GUANTANAMO
BAY PRISON THIS WEEKEND, SENDING
THEM TO URUGUAY.
HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVISTS SAY THE
SIX WERE NEVER CHARGED OR GIVEN
A TRIAL DURING THEIR 12 YEARS OF
DETENTION.
THIS IS THE LARGEST PRISONER
CONTINGENT TO LEAVE GITMO SINCE
2009, AND IT'S THE FIRST GROUP
OF DETAINEES SENT TO SOUTH
AMERICA.
THE TRANSFER HAS BEEN IN THE
WORKS SINCE JANUARY, BUT
URUGUAY'S PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS
DELAYED THE DEAL.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT EXPRESSED
ITS GRATITUDE AND CALLED THE
TRANSFER A "MILESTONE IN U.S.
EFFORTS TO CLOSE GITMO FOR
GOOD."
URUGUAY'S OUTGOING PRESIDENT
JOSE MUJICA SAID FRIDAY THAT THE
DETAINEES ARE, "COMING AS
REFUGEES AND THE FIRST DAY THAT
THEY WANT TO LEAVE, THEY CAN
LEAVE."
136 DETAINEES REMAIN AT THE
PRISON, INCLUDING 67 WHO'VE BEEN
APPROVED FOR FUTURE TRANSFERS.
IN SAUDI ARABIA, 135 PEOPLE
SUSPECTED OF PLOTTING TERRORIST
INSIDE THE KINGDOM HAVE BEEN
ARRESTED.
MOST OF THEM ARE SAUDI
NATIONALS.
SAUDI ARABIA IS STEPPING UP
SECURITY AFTER GETTING THREATS
FROM ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS IN
RECENT WEEKS.
IN MEXICO, AT LEAST ONE OF THE
43 STUDENTS MISSING SINCE
SEPTEMBER HAS NOW BEEN
IDENTIFIED.
FAMILY MEMBERS SAY THE REMAINS
HAD BEEN MOSTLY BURNED TO ASHES.
THE DISCOVERY ADDS WEIGHT TO THE
PROSECUTOR'S THEORY THAT THE
STUDENTS WERE KILLED AFTER BEING
ABDUCTED BY LOCAL POLICE AND
TURNED OVER TO A DRUG GANG.
THE STUDENTS DISAPPEARANCE
TOUCHED OFF MASSIVE PROTESTS IN
MEXICO CITY LAST MONTH.
TODAY THE FATHER OF ONE OF THE
STUDENTS SAYS THE PROTESTS WILL
GO ON.
>> (translated): AS OF TODAY,
OUR DAYS OF FIGHTING WILL
CONTINUE UNTIL WE FIND THE OTHER
MISSING FORTY TWO FRIENDS ALIVE.
>> Sreenivasan: MEXICAN
AUTHORITIES ARE HOLDING MORE
THAN 70 PEOPLE IN CUSTODY,
INCLUDING THE MAYOR, POLICE
OFFICERS, AND GANG MEMBERS FROM
THE TOWN WHERE THE STUDENTS WERE
ABDUCTED.
HERE IN THE U.S., PROTESTS OVER
RECENT POLICE KILLINGS TURNED
VIOLENT IN NORTHERN CALIFORNIA
LAST NIGHT.
AT LEAST 300 PEOPLE MARCHED IN
MOSTLY PEACEFUL DEMONSTRATIONS
NEAR THE BERKELEY CAMPUS.
BUT AUTHORITIES SAY A SPLINTER
GROUP OF PROTESTERS SMASHED
WINDOWS AND THREW BRICKS,
WRENCHES, SMOKE GRENADES AND
EVEN SANDBAGS AT POLICE.
OFFICERS FIRED BACK WITH TEAR
GAS.
TWO POLICE OFFICERS WERE HURT
AND SEVERAL BUSINESSES WERE
VANDALIZED.
ANOTHER ROUND OF PROTESTS IS
EXPECTED TONIGHT IN NEW YORK,
CHICAGO, MINNEAPOLIS, MIAMI AND
PHILADELPHIA.
IN LOUISIANA, DEMOCRAT MARY
LANDRIEU LOST YESTERDAY'S RUNOFF
ELECTION TO BILL CASSIDY BY A
LARGE MARGIN, BOLSTERING THE
REPUBLICAN'S CONTROL OF THE
SENATE.
CASSIDY PROMISED TO SEEK THE
REPEAL OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT THROUGHOUT HIS CAMPAIGN.
WITH CASSIDY'S VICTORY, THE
REPUBLICANS HAVE GAINED A TOTAL
OF NINE SENATE SEATS, GIVING
THEM 54 SENATORS AND FIRM
CONTROL GOING INTO THE NEW
SESSION OF CONGRESS.
TWO MORE LOUISIANA REPUBLICANS
WON THEIR RUNOFF ELECTIONS FOR
U.S. HOUSE SEATS.
LANDRIEU'S LOSS MEANS LOUISIANA
WILL NOT BE REPRESENTED BY A
DEMOCRAT IN THE U.S. SENATE FOR
THE FIRST TIME IN 131 YEARS.
AND THE U.S. BIRTH RATE HAS
REACHED AN ALL-TIME LOW, AS
WOMEN WAIT LONGER TO HAVE
CHILDREN.
THIS, ACCORDING TO THE CENTERS
FOR DISEASE CONTROL.
BIRTH RATES FOR WOMEN OVER 35
REACHED THE HIGHEST LEVELS IN
ABOUT 50 YEARS.
BIRTH RATES FOR WOMEN BETWEEN
THE AGES OF 15 AND 44 HAVE
DROPPED 10% SINCE 2007.
THE SHARPEST DROP OCCURRED AMONG
TEENS WHOSE BIRTH RATES FELL
10%, JUST IN THE LAST YEAR.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'RE LEARNING
MORE ABOUT THAT FAILED HOSTAGE
RESCUE ATTEMPT IN SOUTHERN
YEMEN.
U.S. SPECIAL FORCES TRIED TO
FREE PHOTOJOURNALIST LUKE SOMERS
FROM AL-QAEDA MILITANTS
YESTERDAY.
BUT THE KIDNAPPERS FATALLY SHOT
SOMERS AND ANOTHER HOSTAGE,
SOUTH AFRICAN TEACHER PIERRE
KORKIE, JUST BEFORE THE
COMMANDOS COULD GET TO THEM.
THE BBC REPORTS U.S. SPECIAL
FORCES DIDN'T KNOW KORKIE WAS
BEING HELD THERE.
A CHARITY WORKING ON KORKIE'S
RELEASE SAYS HE WAS SET TO BE
FREED TODAY.
I'M JOINED NOW BY REPORTER ADAM
ENTOUS WHO CHRONICLED THE RAID
FOR THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL."
IN THE PAST 24 HOURS, DO
WE KNOW ANY MORE INFORMATION
ABOUT ANY OTHER CASUALTIES
DURING THIS RAID?
>> NO, THE LATEST WE HEARD
IS THE AMERICANS ASSESSED
THAT ABOUT 6 OR 7 AQAP OR AL
QAEDA MILITANTS WERE KILLED
IN THE RAID AND NONE OF THE
SPECIAL FORCES THAT WERE
INVOLVED IN THE OPERATION,
ABOUT 40 TOTAL, NONE OF THEM
WERE HURT OR INJURED IN ANY
WAY.
BUT OF COURSE THE OUTCOME AS
WE KNOW WAS NOT WHAT WAS
INTENDED WITH THE DEATH OF
THE TWO HOSTAGES.
>> AND AT WHAT POINT DURING
THIS OPERATION DID THING
GOES SOUTH?
>> WHAT HAPPENED WAS IS THAT
THE AMERICAN COMMANDO TEAM
FLEW IN ON OSPREY AIRCRAFT
TO A LANDING SPOT ABOUT 10
KILOMETERS FROM THE COMPOUND
WHERE THE HOSTAGES WERE
BEING HELD.
AND THEN THEY HIKED BY FOOT
THROUGH THIS AREA TO ABOUT
100 YARDS OF THE COMPOUND
WHEN A NOISE WAS HEARD.
ONE OFFICIAL TOLD ME THAT IT
MIGHT HAVE BEEN A DOG BARK,
SOMETHING AS BENIGN AS THAT.
AND THAT TIPPED OFF THE
MILITANTS INSIDE WHO WERE
ALREADY PRETTY TRIGGER HAPPY,
SINCE THERE WAS A PREVIOUS
RAID LATE LAST MONTH TO TRY
TO FREE THE AMERICAN HOSTAGE.
AND THEY OPENED FIRE.
AND AT THAT POINT, YOU KNOW,
THE COMMANDOS WERE STILL ON
THE OUTSIDE OF THE COMPOUND.
AND THAT'S WHEN AMERICANS
BELIEVE THAT ONE OF THE
MILITANTS WENT INSIDE A
BUILDING AND FIRED SHOTS
KILLING THE TWO HOSTAGES.
>> LET'S TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THE INTELLIGENCE THAT
WENT INTO THIS OPERATION.
OBVIOUSLY THE TIMETABLE WAS
ACCELERATED WITH THE
DEADLINE OF A POSSIBLE
KILLING AM BUT EVEN IF THESE
TWO GOVERNMENTS ARE WORKING
TOGETHER, WITH ALL THE
INTELLIGENCE RESOURCES THAT
THEY HAD, THEY STILL DIDN'T
KNOW THAT THERE WAS THIS
OTHER HOSTAGE THERE.
>> WELL, THEY KNEW THAT
THERE WAS ANOTHER HOSTAGE
THERE, BUT THEY DIDN'T KNOW
WHO IT WAS.
BASICALLY AFTER THE RAID
AROUND THANKSGIVING, OR JUST
BEFORE THANKSGIVING, THE
U.S. SAW TWO HOSTAGES BEING
MOVED FROM THE PREVIOUS SITE
WHICH WAS A CAVE.
THEY DIDN'T KNOW WHO THOSE
PEOPLE WERE BUT IT SEEMS
THEY INCORRECTLY THOUGHT AT
THE TIME THAT IT DID NOT
INCLUDE THE AMERICAN.
THAT RAID IN NOVEMBER HELPED
LEAD SPECIAL FORCES TO THIS
NEW COMPOUND AND CLEARLY THE
INTELLIGENCE WAS CORRECT IN
THE SENSE THAT IT HAD THE
AMERICAN MAN A SECOND
HOSTAGE.
ALTHOUGH THE AMERICANS
DIDN'T KNOW WHO THAT SECOND
HOSTAGE WAS.
BUT GETTING INTELLIGENCE IN
THIS PART OF THE WORLD IS
INCREDIBLY DIFFICULT.
AND AS YOU KNOW,
INTELLIGENCE IS PERISHABLE.
YOU KNOW, THE INFORMATION
MIGHT BE RIGHT AT ONE POINT
BUT AFTER A LITTLE BIT OF
TIME, IF THE WEATHER ISN'T
RIGHT AND THE DRONES CAN'T
WATCH PEOPLE COMING AND
GOING, THAT INTELLIGENCE CAN
QUICKLY BE OUT OF DATE.
>> SO WHAT DOES THIS DO TO
FUTURE MISSIONS OR-- I MEAN
YOU SAID IN YOUR REPORTING
THAT SOME OF THE U.S.
OFFICIALS YOU SPOKE TO WERE
DEVASTATED BY THIS FAILURE.
>> YES, THIS WAS THE SECOND
VERY RISKY RAID THAT THE
U.S. HAS DONE TO TRY TO GET
THIS AMERICAN HOSTAGE IN
YEMEN.
AND AT THE WHITE HOUSE, I
KNOW FROM TALKING TO
OFFICIALS, THEY WERE REALLY
HEARTBROKEN THAT IT WAS NOT
SUCCESSFUL.
THEY REALLY DID TAKE A HUGE
RISK HERE.
THEY WERE INSERTING 40
SPECIAL FORCES TO RESCUE ONE
AMERICAN.
IN A PART OF YEMEN WHERE A
LOT OF THINGS CAN GO WRONG
WITH SUICIDE BOMBERS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO YOU KNOW, IT WAS A REALLY-- A
REAL BIG GAMBLE.
BUT FROM THERE PERSPECTIVE,
THEY THOUGHT IT WAS THE BEST
SHOT THAT SUMMERS HAD
BECAUSE THEY WERE
THREATENING TO EXECUTE HIM
AS EARLY AS LATER THAT SAME
DAY THAT THE RAID WAS TAKING
PLACE.
>> ALL RIGHT, ADAM ENTOUS
JOINING IS US FROM
WASHINGTON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: IN TONIGHT'S
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, WE LOOK AT
EFFORTS TO BOOST THE PROSPECTS
OF NEW BUSINESSES, A MOVE THAT
COULD LEAD TO MORE JOB CREATION.
IT'S A FORM OF WHAT'S KNOWN AS
CROWDFUNDING, RAISING A LARGE
SUM OF MONEY ONLINE FROM MANY
SMALL CONTRIBUTORS.
AND, IT REPRESENTS A BIG CHANGE
TO DEPRESSION-ERA LAWS THAT WERE
DESIGNED TO PROTECT THOSE SMALL
INVESTORS FROM BEING FLEECED.
BUT AS YOU'LL SEE IN THIS
UPDATED SEGMENT, THE LAW ITSELF
HASN'T QUITE GOTTEN OFF THE
STARTING BLOCKS.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KARLA
MURTHY HAS OUR STORY.
>> Reporter: ARTUR MAKYLYERVSKY
RUNS A START-UP COMPANY THAT
ALLOWS USERS TO CUSTOMIZE
ORIGINAL ARTWORK ONLINE TO MAKE
PRINTS, T-SHIRTS, OR MOBILE
CASES.
>> TAKES TWO CLICKS TO JUST
ESSENTIALLY CHANGE THE PRODUCT.
>> Reporter: IT'S AN IDEA THAT
HE THINKS COULD TAKE OFF.
SO HE'S WORKING ON BUILDING HIS
BUSINESS AND HOPES TO BE ABLE TO
SELL HIS IDEA TO BIG INVESTORS.
AND THAT CAN BE A TIME CONSUMING
AND DIFFICULT PROCESS THAT TAKES
FACE TO FACE MEETINGS,
NETWORKING, AND LUCK TO HOOK AN
INVESTOR WITH BIG BUCKS.
>> THERE'S ONLY SO MUCH THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO INVEST PER
YEAR.
AND EVERY HOUR, THERE IS
EXPONENTIALLY MORE AND MORE AND
MORE AND MORE START-UPS GETTING
INTO THE MARKET.
SO IT'S GONNA BE HARDER FOR US
TO KIND OF BUBBLE UP.
>> Reporter: BUT NOW, STARTUP
BUSINESSES COULD SOON HAVE
ANOTHER SOURCE OF CASH.
>> FOR START-UPS AND SMALL
BUSINESSES, THIS BILL IS A
POTENTIAL GAME CHANGER.
>> Reporter: THAT'S BECAUSE A
LITTLE-KNOWN PROVISION IN THE
2012 JOBS ACT, SIGNED BY
PRESIDENT OBAMA, ALLOWS NON-
PUBLICLY TRADED COMPANIES TO USE
THE INTERNET TO RAISE INVESTMENT
CAPITAL.
IT'S A PRACTICE KNOWN AS
CROWDFUNDING, RAISING A LARGE
POOL OF MONEY FROM MANY SMALL
CONTRIBUTIONS.
COMPANIES CAN RAISE UP TO ONE
MILLION DOLLARS A YEAR.
BEFORE THE JOBS ACT, TO INVEST
IN MOST STARTUPS AN INDIVIDUAL
HAD TO BE ACCREDITED MEANING
THAT THEY EARNED MORE THAN
$200,000 DOLLARS A YEAR OR WERE
WORTH AT LEAST A MILLION
DOLLARS.
NOW, EVEN IF YOU EARN LESS THAN
$100,000 A YEAR, YOU'LL BE
ALLOWED TO INVEST UP TO $2,000
OR FIVE PERCENT OF YOUR ANNUAL
INCOME IN THESE NEW COMPANIES.
>> FOR THE FIRST TIME, ORDINARY
AMERICANS WILL BE ABLE TO GO
ONLINE AND INVEST IN
ENTREPRENEURS THAT THEY BELIEVE
IN.
>> Reporter: THE QUESTION IS
THIS: WILL IT PROVIDE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR SOMEONE OF
ORDINARY MEANS TO GET IN EARLY
ON A POTENTIALLY LUCRATIVE
INVESTMENT?
OR IS IT A DISASTROUS ROLLBACK
OF LAWS MEANT TO PROTECT
INVESTORS FROM RISKY VENTURES
THAT OFTEN FAIL?
STEVE CASE CO-FOUNDED AOL AND IS
NOW C.E.O. OF REVOLUTION, AN
INVESTMENT FIRM IN WASHINGTON
D.C. HE'S CONVINCED THE LAW WILL
ENCOURAGE THE CREATION OF MORE
STARTUPS.
>> I THINK IT'S GONNA UNLEASH
ANOTHER WAVE OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP
ALL ACROSS THE NATION.
>> Reporter: CASE SERVED ON
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S JOBS COUNCIL
AND WAS A MAJOR SUPPORTER OF THE
JOBS ACT.
>> WE NEED TO REALLY MAKE SURE
WE'RE DOUBLING DOWN ON OUR
NATION'S ENTREPRENEURS, AND
THE JOBS ACT WILL HELP DO THAT
BY PROVIDING MORE ENTREPRENEURS
IN MORE PLACES IN MORE SECTORS
OF OUR ECONOMY THE ABILITY TO
RAISE THE CAPITAL, EITHER TO GET
STARTED OR TO GROW THEIR
COMPANY.
>> Reporter: ARTUR MAKLYAREVSKY
SAYS THIS NEW LAW CAN MAKE IT
EASIER FOR HIM TO RAISE MONEY.
>> ESSENTIALLY IT WILL ALLOW US
TO FOCUS ON GROWTH MUCH FASTER
AND NOT HAVE TO DEAL WITH THE
STANDARD FUNDING ADVENTURES WE
HAVE TO GO ON.
>> Reporter: IS THIS ALSO GONNA
CREATE MORE JOBS?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
IF WE WANT TO GET OUR
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE DOWN, THE
PLACE TO FOCUS IS STARTUPS.
IF WE WANT TO GET OUR ECONOMIC
GROWTH RATE UP, THE PLACE IS TO
FOCUS IS STARTUPS.
IF WE WANT TO MAKE SURE WE'RE
COMPETITIVE, THE PLACE TO FOCUS
IS STARTUPS.
>> Reporter: ACCORDING TO THE
BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS, EACH
YEAR SINCE 1994, STARTUPS HAVE
CREATED MORE JOBS THAN THE TOTAL
NUMBER LOST AND GAINED BY ALL US
BUSINESSES, AND SUPPORTERS SAY
THAT BY UPDATING THE LAW SO
COMPANIES CAN RAISE MONEY FROM
ANYONE OVER THE INTERNET,
ENTREPRENEURS WILL HAVE MORE
ACCESS TO CAPITAL AND WILL IN
TURN CREATE MORE JOBS.
>> THE INTERNET DIDN'T EXIST 80
YEARS AGO.
MOST PEOPLE DIDN'T HAVE
TELEVISION, YOU KNOW, 80 YEARS
AGO.
MOST PEOPLE DIDN'T HAVE CARS 80
YEARS AGO.
THE WORLD HAS CHANGED AND IT WAS
TIME TO UPDATE OUR SECURITIES
LAW TO REFLECT THAT.
>> Reporter: BUT AT WHAT RISK TO
SMALL INVESTORS, WHO COULD BE
PUTTING THEIR MONEY IN THE
RISKIEST OF STARTUPS: BUSINESSES
THAT MAY HAVE FAILED TO RAISE
ENOUGH MONEY FROM VENTURE
CAPITALISTS.
>> THE ISSUE IS, IS IT A GOOD
IDEA FOR INVESTORS?
AND I THINK THE ANSWER TO THAT
IS A RESOUNDING NO.
>> Reporter: ATTORNEY MIKE
STOCKER REPRESENTS INVESTORS.
HE SAYS THIS NEW PROVISION IN
THE JOBS ACT UNDOES PROTECTIONS
PUT IN PLACE DURING THE GREAT
DEPRESSION.
>> IF WE CHANGE THEM NOW WE ARE
FORGETTING NOT ONLY WHAT WE
LEARNED THEN, BUT WHAT WE
LEARNED IN THIS GREAT RECESSION
THAT WE'VE JUST COME THROUGH.
>> Reporter: A LOT OF THE
SUPPORTERS ARE SAYING WE ARE
JUST BRINGING THESE LAWS INTO
THIS CENTURY, I MEAN THE
INTERNET WASN'T AROUND BACK THEN
AND WE REALLY NEED TO UPDATE
THESE LAWS IN ORDER TO REFLECT
THE WAY BUSINESS WORKS NOW.
WHAT'S YOUR RESPONSE TO THAT?
>> WELL, THAT'S CERTAINLY BEEN
PART OF THE HUGE MASS APPEAL TO
CROWDFUNDING THAT IT SOUNDS KIND
OF SEXY AND KIND OF 21ST
CENTURY, AND MOST IMPORTANTLY
KIND OF DEMOCRATIC BECAUSE
EVERYONE CAN GET INVOLVED.
THE THING THAT THEY ARE ACTUALLY
ASKING TO BE UPDATED IS
TRADITIONAL LIMITATIONS ON THE
ABILITY OF SMALL, PRIVATE
COMPANIES TO RAISE MONEY FROM
MOM-AND-POP RETAIL INVESTORS.
AND THOSE RESTRICTIONS HAVE BEEN
IN PLACE HISTORICALLY BECAUSE
THOSE ARE VERY RISKY
INVESTMENTS.
>> Reporter: ISN'T THERE SOME
BENEFIT FOR HAVING THIS JUST
OPEN TO ACCREDITED INVESTORS
THAT ARE WEALTHY AND MAYBE MORE
SOPHISTICATED AND KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT KIND OF WHAT'S ENTAILED
WITH THE RISK AND ARE MORE
KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOUT INVESTING?
>> I UNDERSTAND THAT CONCERN.
WE DON'T HAVE THAT LIMITATION IN
TERMS OF LETTING PEOPLE BUY A
HOUSE WHICH IS RISKY.
WE DON'T HAVE THAT LIMITATION IN
TERMS OF PEOPLE INVESTING IN THE
STOCK MARKET WHICH IS RISKY.
WE DON'T HAVE THAT LIMITATION IN
TERMS PEOPLE GAMBLING IN LAS
VEGAS WHICH IS REALLY RISKY.
WHY SHOULD WE TELL PEOPLE THEY
SHOULDN'T BE ABLE TO INVEST
IN STARTUPS?
FOR THE LAST 80 YEARS, YOU
ESSENTIALLY HAD TO BE A
MILLIONAIRE TO INVEST IN
STARTUPS.
SO IT WAS KIND OF A WAY FOR THE
RICH TO GET RICHER, BUT
EVERYBODY ELSE WAS BEING LEFT
OUT.
>> Reporter: I KNOW SOME
SKEPTICS ARE REALLY WORRIED
ABOUT FRAUD AND PROTECTING THE
INVESTORS.
I MEAN, IS THAT SOMETHING YOU'RE
CONCERNED ABOUT, THAT MAYBE SOME
OF THESE INVESTORS MIGHT GET
FLEECED?
>> I THINK THERE'S ALWAYS RISK
OF THAT.
I THINK THE RIGHT PROTECTIONS
ARE BEING PUT IN PLACE AND I
REMEMBER, SINCE WE STARTED AOL
ALMOST 30 YEARS AGO WHEN THE
INTERNET JUST BEGINNING TO BE AN
IDEA.
WHEN PEOPLE STARTED TALKING
ABOUT THE IDEA OF E-COMMERCE,
WHEN PEOPLE ENTERING
THEIR CREDIT CARDS ON THE
INTERNET, THEY SAID, "THAT'S
NEVER GOING TO HAPPEN.
PEOPLE ARE NEVER WANT TO ENTER
THEIR CREDIT CARDS."
OVER TIME, PEOPLE GOT
COMFORTABLE THAT THEY WERE GOING
TO BE PROTECTED.
THESE NEW TECHNOLOGIES, THESE
NEW IDEAS WILL TAKE SOME TIME TO
REALLY SETTLE OUT AND REALLY
HAVE THE KIND OF IMPACT THEY CAN
HAVE.
>> Reporter: BUT THERE'S A
CATCH, EVEN THOUGH STARTUPS WERE
SUPPOSED TO BE ABLE TO USE THIS
NEW TOOL TO RAISE MONEY BY
JANUARY 2013, THE S.E.C. STILL
HASN'T FULLY IMPLEMENTED THE
CROWDFUNDING PROVISION OF THE
JOBS ACT.
>> I THINK THEY WANT TO BE
DELIBERATE AND MAKE SURE THEY
GET IT RIGHT WHICH I UNDERSTAND.
BUT I THINK THEY ALSO NEED TO
UNDERSTAND THERE ARE A LOT OF
ENTREPRENEURS OUT THERE WITH
COMPANIES THAT AREN'T GETTING
STARTED BECAUSE THEY DON'T HAVE
ACCESS TO CAPITAL OR WITH
EXISTING COMPANIES THAT COULD BE
GROWING AND CREATING JOBS THAT
AREN'T DOING THAT BECAUSE THEY
DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO CAPITAL.
>> Reporter: IN OCTOBER 2013,
THE S.E.C. RELEASED PROPOSED
RULES FOR CROWDFUNDING AND HAS
RECEIVED HUNDREDS OF COMMENTS.
BUT TODAY, USING CROWDFUNDING TO
RAISE INVESTMENT CAPITAL FROM
ORDINARY INVESTORS IS STILL NOT
LEGAL FOR ENTREPRENEURS.
MANY SUPPORTERS OF THE PROVISION
HAVE EXPRESSED CONCERN THAT THE
PROPOSED RULES, AND EVEN SOME OF
THE REQUIREMENTS IN THE ORIGINAL
BILL, MAKE IT UNWORKABLE FOR
MANY SMALL BUSINESSES.
>> IT IS NOW CLEAR THAT THE
CURRENT STATUTE HAS FAILED.
>> Reporter: EVEN THOUGH THE
CROWDFUNDING PROVISION STILL
HASN'T BEEN ENACTED.
CONGRESSMAN PATRICK McHENRY, WHO
HELPED AUTHOR THE ORIGINAL BILL,
INTRODUCED "THE EQUITY
CROWDFUNDING IMPROVEMENT ACT OF
2014" IN MAY, THE NEW
LEGISLATION WOULD INCREASE THE
AMOUNT A COMPANY CAN RAISE USING
CROWDFUNDING FROM $1 MILLION TO
$5 MILLION AND COMPANIES WOULD
NOT HAVE TO PROVIDE AUDITED
FINANCIALS WHEN RAISING UP TO $3
MILLION, UP FROM $500,000 IN THE
ORIGINAL BILL.
WHILE THAT BILL HAS NOT YET BEEN
VOTED ON AND THE S.E.C. STILL
WORKS ON THE FINAL CROWDFUNDING
RULES, MANY STATES ARE NOT
WAITING.
FOURTEEN STATES AND THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA HAVE ALLOWED
COMPANIES RAISING MONEY IN THEIR
OWN BORDERS TO USE CROWDFUNDING
AN EXEMPTION ALLOWED UNDER
FEDERAL LAW.
AT LEAST 12 OTHERS ARE
CONSIDERING JOINING THEM.
BUT FOR MANY ENTREPRENUERS,
INCLUDING ARTUR MAKLYREVESKY,
CROWDFUNDING REMAINS OUT OF
REACH, MORE THAN TWO-AND-A-HALF
YEARS AFTER JOBS ACT WAS SIGNED
INTO LAW.
>> Sreenivasan: SHOULD SMALL
INVESTORS BE ALLOWED TO FUND
START UP BUSINESSES, OR IS IT
TOO RISKY?
TAKE OUR POLL AT
newshour.pbs.org.
>> Sreenivasan: INVESTIGATORS
ARE CALLING THE RECENT CYBER
ATTACK ON SONY PICTURES
UNPRECEDENTED, WELL-PLANNED AND
POSSIBLY THE MOST DESTRUCTIVE
CORPORATE SECURITY BREACH
REPORTED ON U.S. SOIL.
SONY HAPPENS TO BE RELEASING A
COMEDY MOVIE CALLED "THE
INTERVIEW" WHICH DEPICTS A PLOT
TO ASSASSINATE KIM JONG UN,
POINTING TO NORTH KOREA'S
POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT IN THE
ATTACK.
THERE'S ALSO SPECULATION THAT
CHINA AIDED IN THE SECURITY
BREACH.
JOINING ME NOW VIA SKYPE FROM
SEOUL SOUTH KOREA IS JAMES
PEARSON, A REPORTER FOR REUTERS
AND THE CO-AUTHOR OF "NORTH
KOREA CONFIDENTIAL," DUE OUT IN
FEBRUARY.
LET'S START WITH THE ATTACK ON
SONY.
DOES THE EVIDENCE POINT TO NORTH
KOREA?
>> WELL, THAT AT LEAST NO
CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE THAT
NORTH KOREA WAS BEHIND THE
ATTACKS ON SONY PICTURES.
WHAT WE DO KNOW ARE THAT
THERE ARE-- THERE ARE SOME
ATTACKS TO AN EARLIER ONE
SINCE ABOUT 2009 THERE HAVE
BEEN COUNTLESS ATTACKS ON
SOUTH KOREA BY A GANG WHICH
SECURITY RESEARCHERS HAVE
NICK NAMED THE DARK SEOUL
GANG WHICH WAS THE NAME FOR
THE MALWARE THAT THEY WERE
USING AT THE TIME.
THEY FOUND THAT THESE
HACKERS WERE ON THE SURFACE
LOOKED LIKE HACKTIVISTS.
THEY WERE DEFACING WEB
SITES.
THE CODE THEY HAD WRITTEN
WAS SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED TO
STEAL SOUTH KOREAN AND
MILITARY SECRETS AND ALSO
FROM U.S. BASES WHICH THERE
ARE MANY HERE IN SOUTH
KOREA.
SO THERE WHILE THERE IS
STILL NO CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE
THAT NORTH KOREA IS INDEED
BEHIND THIS ATTACK AND THEY
HAVE ALSO DENIED IT.
JUST TODAY THEY SAID THAT IT
WAS A RIGHTOUS DEED, THAT
PERHAPS SOME PRO NORTH
KOREAN ACTIVIST DID ON THEIR
BEHALF.
THE POINT IS IF THEY WANTED
TO DO THAT ATTACK THEY WOULD
HAVE THE CAPABILITY TO DO
SO.
>> TELL PUS ABOUT THE
STRUCTURE OF WHAT AMOUNTS TO
THE NORTH KOREAN CYBERUNIT.
>> WELL, WITHIN NORTH KOREA
JUST LIKE IN FACT MANY
COUNTRIES HAS ITS OWN
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE WHICH
IS SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED TO
TARGET THE MILITARY-- THE
NETWORKS OF THE MILITARY OF
ITS ENEMIES.
NOW WITHIN NORTH KOREA THERE
IS AN ORGANIZATION THAT IS
SLIGHTLY SHADOWY
ORGANIZATION LIKE MANY OF
THE WINGS OF THE GENERAL
GOVERNMENT CALLED THE
GENERAL RECONAISSANCE BUREAU,
AN WITH WITHIN THAT UNIT
THEY HAD ONE THAT
SPECIALIZES IN HACKING,
ESSENTIALLY.
>> YOU HAVE SPOKEN TO NORTH
KOREAN-- THEY TOLD YOU
HACKERS ARE GIVEN INCENTIVES
TO BE PART OF THIS TEAM.
>> THE FACT IS THAT WE SPOKE
TO IN SEOUL DESCRIBES
HACKING AS A MEMBER OF THE
NORTH KOREAN ELITE, AS A
WHITE COLLAR JOB,
ESSENTIALLY.
IT'S A HIGHLY IS OUT AFTER
PROFESSION THERE ARE MANY
PEOPLE WITHOUT DO COMPUTER
SCIENCE IN PYONGYANG.
IN FACT, YOU DON'T EVEN HAVE
TO BE OF THE ELITE.
WE SPOKE TO SOME DEFECTORS
WHO SAY THEY STUDIED
ALONGSIDE FRIENDS WHO CAME
ALL THE WAY FROM THE
COUNTRYSIDES IT TO PYONGYANG
TO STUDY AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF AUTOMATION.
AND LEARN THEIR TRADE THERE.
NOW IN TERMS OF THE
INCENTIVES THAT THEY GIVE
THESE HACKERS, ONE THING
YOU'VE GOT TO REMEMBER, IF
YOU ARE IN A HIGHLY
CONTROLLED STATE LIKE NORTH
KOREA, AND YOU ARE GIVEN
ACCESS TO INFORMATION FROM
THE OUTSIDE WORLD, THEN IDEA
LOGICALLY IT'S QUITE
THREATENING.
SO ONE THING YOU CAN DO AS A
STATE TO SWEETEN THE DEAL
FOR THESE HACKERS IS MAKE
SURE THAT THEY LIVE VERY,
VERY COMFORTABLY.
IF YOU ARE A HACKER, FOR
EXAMPLE, YOU WOULD BE GIVEN
QUITE A NICE APARTMENT.
YOU MAY HAVE PROBABLY A
COMPUTER IN YOUR OWN HOUSE.
AND YOU WILL LIVE QUITE
COMFORTABLY.
YOU WILL PROBABLY ALSO BE
ABLE TO TRAVEL OVERSEAS AS
PART OF THE NORTH KOREAN
TRADING DELEGATION AND HAVE
ACCESS TO THINGS THAT MOST
NORTH KOREANS SIMPLY WOULD
NEVER EVEN BE AWARE OF, LET
ALONE THINK OF.
>> JAMES PEARSON VIA SKYPE
FROM SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY TONIGHT,
THE SO-CALLED CENTRAL PARK FIVE
ARE REPORTEDLY SUING THE STATE
OF NEW YORK FOR $52 MILLION.
THE FIVE WERE WRONGFULLY JAILED
FOR THE 1989 RAPE OF A CENTRAL
PARK JOGGER.
THE MEN HAVE ALREADY SETTLED
THEIR SUIT AGAINST NEW YORK CITY
FOR $41 MILLION.
THE PRICE OF GAS HAS DROPPED 12
CENTS OVER THE PAST TWO WEEKS,
HITTING ITS LOWEST POINT IN MORE
THAN FOUR YEARS, ACCORDING TO
THE LATEST LUNDBURG SURVEY THE
AVERAGE GALLON OF REGULAR NOW
COST TWO DOLLARS AND 72 CENTS.
AND A LETTER JOE DIMAGGIO SENT
TO MARILYN MONROE SOLD FOR MORE
THAN $78,000 IN AUCTION THIS
WEEKEND.
IN THE LETTER DIMAGGIO ASKS
MONROE TO RECONSIDER THEIR
DIVORCE.
MONROE'S RESPONSE TO HIS LETTER
SOLD AT THE SAME AUCTION FOR
MORE THAN $43,000.
THAT IS IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.